---
layout: post
title: A personal tribute to 'Abdu'l-Bahá
subtitle: Reflections on the perfect Exemplar and following in His footsteps
---

2021 was a special year, and it feels strange to say it. It might seem primarily like a year where challenges which humanity has never faced before has pushed us all to the limits of our collective capacity. A difficult time from many perspectives.

But this was also the year in which Bahá'ís and many others were commemorating a historical moment: a full one hundred years since the passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá. I imagine that many of you who might glance through this post are already familiar with His life, which is, in the Bahá'í Faith, the perfect embodiment of the Teachings given to humanity by His father, Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Faith. Others might have heard this exotic name (or rather, title) thrown out in conversation, with more or sometimes less background information given. Whatever the case, these personal musings are just an inadequate attempt at describing my experience with what is possibly, for all of humanity, an occasion to reflect on a uniquely significant life, one that remains significant for all of the challenges we're striving to overcome today.

> Contemplating the Person of the Master, we find ourselves wonderstruck by the all-compassing authority that accompanied His inexhaustible patience and understanding, by the keenness of His wisdom in every setting, by the infinite tenderness of His being, and by His limitless love that can be felt by every unshuttered soul. But every prompting to pay homage to His matchless qualities is restrained by the recollection that never did He seek praise or worldly recognition. And so we feel compelled to testify: Beloved of all our hearts, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Your all was servitude—a servitude “complete, pure and real, firmly established, enduring, obvious, explicitly revealed and subject to no interpretation whatever”.
(The Universal House of Justice, [27 November 2021](www.bahai.org/r/422353090) – On the Occasion of the Centenary Commemoration of the Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.)

# How to reflect

'Abdu'l-Bahá has always been there for me. I grew up in a household, where stories were told about His life, where we had pictures of Him on our shelves and walls. I always knew He was important, His example was something to think about. But it wasn't easy for me to find the words as to why. I remember struggling to explain who 'Abdu'l-Bahá was to friends asking about His portrait. My inventive mind found many strange ways out of this feeling of inadequacy, at times saying "He was my (great) grandfather" or "That's 'Abdu'l-Bahá", and quickly changing the subject to something less puzzling. A black and white picture of a smiling man in oriental dress is not something that one usually sees hanging in a swiss home. More common elements are pictures of kids, dogs, cats or mountains. So why did we have this culturally out-of-place portrait?

To be honest, it's still not easy for me to put into words. I guess the right words are particularly difficult to find when what we're trying to say is so important.

_In 2 minutes or less, please explain why 'Abdu'l-Bahá is the example which all of human kind should look to, the embodiment of a divine ideal which we should all strive to get closer to, both individually and collectively, the life demonstrating teachings that are the remedy to the many deeply rooted ills plaguing the human family today._

_*Gulp*_...

I guess on top of explaining it to others, it's important to have clarity in my own thoughts. When something has always been part of my life it's not easy to constantly feel it's significance. The same goes for other essentials, like sleeping, eating, breathing. But the difference is that these are more easily part of our routine. The difference is that in order to follow the example of 'Abdu'l-Bahá, I need to be conscious about it in the many facets of my daily existence, which requires careful reflection and conscious decisions. Many of the steps that I take in my daily life are automatic, but new habits of being and doing need to be carefully established and reinforced through a repeated rhythm of study, action and reflection.

> Act in accordance with the counsels of the Lord: that is, rise up in such wise, and with such qualities, as to endow the body of this world with a living soul, and to bring this young child, humanity, to the stage of adulthood. So far as ye are able, ignite a candle of love in every meeting, and with tenderness rejoice and cheer ye every heart. Care for the stranger as for one of your own; show to alien souls the same loving kindness ye bestow upon your faithful friends. Should any come to blows with you, seek to be friends with him; should any stab you to the heart, be ye a healing salve unto his sores; should any taunt and mock at you, meet him with love. ([Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá](www.bahai.org/r/117959446))

# His example

There are so many examples of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's beautiful, wise, keenly applicable words, as well as accounts of his stainless and radiant deeds of service, self-sacrifice, love. There are many far more complete and fitting descriptions than what I could hope to give. A notable one is the recent film [_Exemplar_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pXc0cOhrcW4) that was made to commemorate the centenary of His passing. In the course of this year, like countless others, I've been eagerly reading, viewing, listening to many sources to gain an impression, sometimes fleeting, sometimes lasting, of the walk that He walked.

> What a force lies in the personality of Abdul Baha! Rarely, if ever, have I beheld one so imbued with truth and grace as this man. Seldom or never have I been more profoundly affected than when, in taking leave of me at our last interview, he embraced and kissed me in oriental fashion and charged me that my life should be fruitful – an influence for good – a means of aiding and uplifting others. Never perhaps before had I so well realized as then the infinity of the human soul, or the incomprehensible potency of its appeal. The personality of Abdul Baha was, and remains, a mighty mystery to me. All men are wonderful. But this man seems to include so much. And when we reflect upon his significance, he becomes more wonderful still. (Richard Dimsdale Stocker, a writer and member of the Ethical Movement, who met 'Abdu’l-Baha on several occasions and wrote an article for _The Ethical World_)

Knowing of such accounts has been helpful to be able to relate them to other situations I can observe around me. But beyond the knowledge of such details, it seems like there is a huge bundle of capacities and attitudes that must constantly be refined in order to simply strive to take a step in the same direction. The capacity to draw on the power of prayer; the capacity to see only the good in others, and overlook their faults; the capacity to unify seemingly opposing viewpoints and encourage to work for a unified purpose; the capacity to work, without compromise, to promote justice; the capacity to shower love, without limit, on every person met; the capacity to work alongside many others in selfless service to all of humanity.

> O ye loved ones of God! In this, the Bahá’í dispensation, God’s Cause is spirit unalloyed. His Cause belongeth not to the material world. It cometh neither for strife nor war, nor for acts of mischief or of shame; it is neither for quarrelling with other Faiths, nor for conflicts with the nations. Its only army is the love of God, its only joy the clear wine of His knowledge, its only battle the expounding of the Truth; its one crusade is against the insistent self, the evil promptings of the human heart. Its victory is to submit and yield, and to be selfless is its everlasting glory. In brief, it is spirit upon spirit
([Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá](www.bahai.org/r/395761136)))

# A small tribute

TODO Album art and link.

It has been a special joy this year, on top of efforts to learn alongside many friends how to follow 'Abdu'l-Bahá's example through our humble words and deeds, to contribute a short EP of prayers and quotes of His put to music. My dear friend, Yasmin, was the driving force behind the project, and I was happy to be along for the experience. Many others contributed, most notably Emily, with her vocals and violin, Sandro, with his drum kit and Lukas, with his many hours of recording and mixing. And dear Nelli contributed with the artwork for the release. The songs can be listened to on [bandcamp](https://yasmindoust.bandcamp.com/).

Putting holy writings and prayers to music is a special experience for me. It helps to reflect, often through repeated, meditative singing of the words, in ways that wouldn't be as easily achievable through simple reading. It's also a challenge, finding the right melody, rhythm, atmosphere, to not distract from the writings, but rather support the meaning conveyed. A piece is always incomplete and can often grow and develop as it is played and taken over by others, shared in different spaces of personal or collective devotion. We hope that these songs will be of some inspiration and help to reflect deeply on what 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote in these passages.

TODO photo of the Master

The passages we chose are some that at some moment have inspired us and given us more clarity into our spiritual efforts and the greatness of this day for humanity. These moments come and go, in times of personal prayer and meditation or collective striving for systematic action in the light of these words and principles. Two of the passages which we put to music brought some particular thoughts to mind:

> O Thou compassionate God! Bestow upon me a heart which, like unto a glass, may be illumined with the light of Thy love, and confer upon me thoughts which may change this world into a rose garden through the outpourings of heavenly grace. ([Prayer by 'Abdu'l-Bahá](www.bahai.org/r/803431713))

This part of a prayer quoted is something I'm very grateful for having learned by heart at some point. It allows me to recognise the importance of what we try to radiate towards others, something which is otherwise extremely challenging, in an environment where our insistent ego is very often given free reign and feels legitimised in being self-absorbed rather than selfless. It gives me some small feeling for with what infinite love and tenderness God wishes for all of humanity to progress together in unity.

> Now doth the mystic nightingale carol its odes, and buds of inner meaning are bursting into blossoms delicate and fair. The field larks are become the festival’s musicians, and lifting wondrous voices they cry and sing to the melodies of the Company on high, ‘Blessed are ye! Glad Tidings! Glad Tidings!’ And they urge on the revellers of the Abhá Paradise to drink their fill, and they eloquently hold forth upon the celestial tree, and utter their sacred cries. All this, that withered souls who tread the desert of the heedless, and faded ones lost in the sands of unconcern, may come to throbbing life again, and present themselves at the feasts and revels of the Lord God. ([Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá](www.bahai.org/r/849425798))

The poetic beauty of this passage from one of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's tablets is something obvious at first reading, but what really strikes me about it is the clear message: this is a day for being joyful, grateful, looking towards an incredible outpouring of blessings that are flowing over humanity. As I noted at the beginning of this post, when we see the many sufferings and collective and individual challenges around the world, it might be difficult to see this reality described by 'Abdu'l-Bahá. We are, perhaps, mostly 'heedless' and 'faded'. It becomes clear that this reality is within the spiritual life of humanity. While the challenges which are being and will be faced are probably greater than they have ever been, the capacity to fittingly overcome them, while still far from perfect, is also greater than ever. And the capacity continues to grow as more and more souls strive to find their meaningful and consistent contribution. This signal for humanity's dawning age of maturity is truly incredible. As we stand at the threshold of a significant step forward in our collective and individual functioning, we might still be clouded by many doubts and confusions. But 'Abdu'l-Bahá's example shines a clear light in the direction which will lead to the progress of all.
